In my years as a software developer, consultant and tutor, I have found that
people in technical endeavors can and often get confused about terms. We have to
communicate about very complicated things and there are only so many words to go
around. This has gotten me in some awfully confusing conversations. One time I
was trying to have a conversation about React and global variables. In the
context of React, "context" is just a store of data which is globally
accessible. In many other contexts, "context" is defined as a data storage or
the database. So, if you didn't have context on our conversation you could walk
up and hear us disagreeing about whether we should use context to store data.
Okay, I'll stop.

But, the word "context" is a great example of a word which can
have many different meanings and can cause significant confusion within our
technical endeavors.

## What can we do about it?

I have found that teams or groups which are the most tolerant of these issues
have incredibly candid and trusting cultures that are not afraid to courteously
interrupt to ask for clarification. How do we get there?

### Start with Awareness

Bring your team together and make sure that the team is aware that this can be
an issue.

### Encourage Humility

We all want to be smart. We all want to be the ones who know lots and are super
capable. However, it is usually the team members who keep an open heart and
questioning mind who end up understanding instead of getting frustrated and
writing the other guy off as an idiot. Encourage humility on your teams. It is
_required_.

### Write Stuff Down

Many teams these days have high turnover due to instability in the software job
space. Writing down definitions and company / team specific terms can help
transfer your knowledge and help set you apart as more of a professional.

## Conclusion

The technical things we do are confusing and complicated in general. It is in
our best interest to keep things organized and as simple as possible. This
effort starts with the very words we use to bring our complex and fuzzy concepts
into existence. Maintainable systems start clear and well defined concepts.
